.. vim: ft=rst sts=2 sw=2 tw=70
.. default-role:: literal

======================================================================
                               Chicory
======================================================================
----------------------------------------------------------------------
  JavaScript Object Description Language for CoffeeScript / Node.js
----------------------------------------------------------------------

:Author: Roman Neuhauser
:Contact: rneuhauser@suse.cz
:Copyright: This document is in the public domain.

.. This file is marked up using reStructuredText.
   Lines beginning with ".." are reST directives.
   "foo_" or "`foo bar`_" is a link, defined at ".. _foo" or
   ".. _foo bar".
   "::" introduces a literal block (usually some form of code).
   "`foo`" is some kind of identifier.
   Suspicious backslashes in the text ("`std::string`\s") are required
   for reST to recognize the preceding character as syntax.

.. contents::

.. important links:

.. _CoffeeScript: http://coffeescript.org/
.. _Node.js: http://nodejs.org/
.. _NPM: http://npmjs.org/
.. _NPM Registry: http://search.npmjs.org/

Overview
========

Chicory is an internal CoffeeScript DSL used to describe and assert
object structure.

This example uses standard matchers `Interval`, `Matches` (used
implicitly where the right hand side of `=o` is a `RegExp`), `OfType`,
`OneOf`, `Optional`, and shows how to write custom matchers (`IPv4Host`).

::

  chicory = require './lib/chicory'

  IPv4Host  =   (value, check = chicory.raise) ->

    re = /^(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})$/
    ok = (b, low = 0) -> low <= b < 255

    return false unless (OfType String) value, check
    m = re.exec value
    return false unless check m
    return check ((ok m[1], 1) and (ok m[2]) and (ok m[3]) and (ok m[4], 1))

  Hostname  =o  /^[a-z]+[-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9](:?\.[a-z]+[-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])*$/
  Host      =o  OneOf IPv4Host, Hostname
  Port      =o  Interval 1, 65536 + 1
  Username  =o  /^[_a-z]+\w+$/

  DSN       =o
    host: Host
    port: Port
    user: Username
    pass: Optional OfType String

  match DSN,
    host: '127.0.0.1'
    port: 4567
    user: 'roman'

License
=======

`Chicory` is covered by the MIT license.  See `LICENSE`.

Status
======

`Chicory` is in early development.  Some basic matchers are
implemented, the mismatch reporting is not yet very useful,
and the interface may change.

Prerequisities
==============

* CoffeeScript_ 1.3.3 or higher
* `Node.js`_ 0.6.x or higher
* NPM_ (any version appropriate for your version of Node.js)
* several packages installable with `npm` (see package.json)


Installation
============

`Chicory` will appear in the `NPM Registry`_ once it's ready.


Hacking
=======

If you want to hack on `Chicory`: ::

  git clone https://github.com/roman-neuhauser/chicory.git
  cd chicory
  make check # or npm test
  # happy hacking

Documentation
=============

None yet.
